
<!-- saved from url=(0106)https://raw.github.com/icedream/craftitude/036571e5cea35f6c6384725377d65d22b2de72c6/documentation/draft.md -->
<html><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><style type="text/css"></style><style type="text/css"></style></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;"># Craftitude Repository Documentation
Gist Draft *Mar 31 2013, Version 0.3a*
by Icedream (Carl Kittelberger)

Filesystem Tree
===============

```

[DIR] repositoryname
	[DIR] &lt;minecraft version&gt;
		[FILE] packages.yml*
		[FILE] packages.yml?since=&lt;date&gt;*
		[FILE] packages.yml.gz*
		[FILE] packages.yml.gz?since=&lt;date&gt;*
		[DIR] packages
			[DIR] &lt;platform-dependent package name&gt;
				[DIR] &lt;version&gt;
					[FILE] metadata.yml
					[DIR] &lt;platform: windows/macosx/solaris/linux&gt;
						[FILE] instructions
				[DIR] &lt;version&gt;
					[FILE] metadata.yml
					[DIR] &lt;platform&gt;
						[FILE] instructions
				...
			[DIR] &lt;platform-independent package name&gt;
				[DIR] &lt;version&gt;
					[FILE] metadata.yml
					[FILE] instructions
				[DIR] &lt;version&gt;
					[FILE] metadata.yml
					[FILE] instructions
				...
			...
	...
...

* This file is recommended to be generated dynamically either by cron (every day
  at least) or per request (using some weak sort of caching at least) from other
  available data in the repository directory.

```

Distribution Packages file (``packages.yml``)
=====================================

The ``packages.yml`` file is a YAML-compatible file. It's contents are:

- All packages in the current repository
  o Package metadata
  o Available version IDs
  o Reference to most current version ID

Note: ``packages.yml.gz`` is a GZIP-compressed copy or mirror of this file.

Typical plain content:

```yaml
Package1:
	Metadata:
		# Most recent metadata, look in the Package Metadata file section for the contents
	CurrentVersion: Current version ID here
Package2:
  ...
```

Recommendation: Generate this file dynamically when needed (by request) or in a periodic time interval (by cron) from the available Package Metadata files.

Distribution Packages Patch file (``packages.yml?since=...``)
=============================================================

This file can be generated by a script sorting out only the updated packages
since a specific date and only transfer those to the client. This is more
efficient than downloading the full contents every time something changes in
general.

Note: ``packages.yml.gz?since=...`` is a GZIP-compressed copy or mirror of this file.

The contents and the typical plain content are equal to those of the complete
Distribution Packages file, though the file will only contain packages updated
since the specified date.

In case the server doesn't support the since parameter and therefore can't serve
updates as patches, the client will just use a fallback and compare all cached
entries with those which the server sends (which is every package with every
metadata as it accesses the full ``packages.yml``).

Parameters:
- "since":
	Specifies the date until when packages should be seen as "old" and should
	not be transferred anymore. The date should be ideally formatted after ISO
	8601 or - if the repository server/script supports it - some shorter variant
	of it.

Recommendation: Generate this file dynamically when needed (by request) or in a periodic time interval (by cron) from the available Package Metadata files.

Package Metadata file (``metadata.yml``)
========================================

This file must contain all essential data to identify the package and its
properties. Contents are as following:

- "ID" (optional): The ID of the package. If not used, will be automatically
  defaulted to whatever the client finds first, the ID in one of the
	Repository Packages file variants or in the URL.
- "Description": The description of what the package contains, does or implies.
	Should usually not exceed 2048 chars.
- "Maintainers": A list of package maintainers.
- "Developers": A list of developers of the files within the package.
- "License": Can be either a url to, the name of or the text of a license, or a
	combination of them, delimited by a semicolon and a space ("; ").
- "Dependencies" (optional): A list of IDs of all packages on which the current
	package's version depends on.
- "PlatformDependency": Indicates whether the package should serve different
	files seperated for each operating system platform. More about
	platform-dependent packages in the respective section Platform-dependent
	packages. Accepted values are "True" and "False".

Example:

```yaml
Description: |
  This is a simple multiline description.
  
  It even supports empty lines.
Maintainers:
  - Icedream
  - Railcrafti
Developers:
  - Icedream
License: GNU General Public License Version 3; http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0
PlatformDependency: False
```

Package Instruction file (``instructions``)
============================================

Package Instruction files tell the client how to handle the contents of a
package to install or uninstall it by giving it instructions. Those instructions
are given in form of a LUA script. Following functions are available besides the
basic LUA features available in each standard LUA script:

- SetMetaInfIgnore(value):
	Manipulates behaviour for META-INF data in JAR source archives. &lt;value&gt; can
	be true or false, where true forces META-INF data to be handles as normal
	directories/files and false forces META-INF data to be completely ignored.
- UnpackAllFromSource(targetdir):
	Unpacks all files from the source archive into &lt;targetdir&gt;.
- UnpackAllFromSource(targetdir, filter):
	Unpacks all files from the source archive matching the file filter into
	&lt;targetdir&gt;. The filter has the same form as the glob() function in PHP.
	Example:
		"*.*" for all files or "*.class" for only files which end with ".class".
- InjectAllFromSource(targetfile):
	Injects all files from the source archive into the archive at &lt;targetfile&gt;.
- InjectAllFromSource(targetfile, filter):
	Injects all files from the source archive matching the glob filter into the
	archive at &lt;targetfile&gt;.
- DeleteFile(targetfile):
	Deletes &lt;targetfile&gt;.
- DeleteDir(targetdir):
	Deletes &lt;targetdir&gt; and all its subdirectories.
- Move(source, target):
	Moves a directory or a file from &lt;source&gt; to &lt;target&gt;. Can be also used
	as an explicit absolute path rename.
- Rename(source, target):
	Alias to Move(...).
- GetPackageMetadata(propertyname):
	Gets the currently processed package's version's metadata property
	&lt;propertyname&gt;'s value. The return type is the same one served by the YAML
	data of the package metadata.
- GetPackageVersion():
	Gets the currently processed package's version.
- GetResolver(resolvername[, parameters]):
	Fetches a resolver by its name.

All resolvers will have these functions:
- ResolveToStream()
	Resolves to a stream.
- ResolveToArchive()
	Resolves to an archive, this is usally the function you want to call with the last resolver.
- ResolveToString()
	Resolves to a text.

[Resolver documentation following soon.]

Simple example of a typical fully working instruction set.

```lua
function Install()
	-- unpack all source files into "&lt;basedir&gt;\my_mod_folder\"
	UnpackAllFromSource("my_mod_folder")
end

function Uninstall()
	-- delete all folders from the "&lt;basedir&gt;\my_mod_folder\"
	DeleteFolder("my_mod_folder")
end

function Source()
	-- Download the mod's jar file from a website
	-- and resolve it to a stream for the ZIP resolver
	local a = GetResolver("download", {
		url = "http://somesite.com/downloads/mod.jar"
	}):ResolveToStream()

	-- Resolve it to an archive
	local b = GetResolver("zip", {
		input = a
	}):ResolveToArchive()

	-- Return the ready-to-use resolved file
	return b
end
```

Security measurements:
- You can not do file operations outside the base target directory (the directory to which the client installs all files of all packages).
</pre></body></html>